A single 360 solution that does it all

SAP simplifies how projects with external services providers are initiated, engaged, managed, and completed.

Initiate service requests with a competitive bidding process that allows you to collaborate on bid criteria with colleagues, expedite approvals for authorized terms and budgets, and then distribute the request for services providers to respond.
 
Create service request: Produce service orders and statements of work from pre-populated templates.
 
Collaborate and approve: Communicate easily with internal stakeholders to nail down the details of the request before sending it to vendors.
 
Distribute service request: Send requests to a selected vendor or use robust bidding tools to solicit responses from a list of preferred vendors.

Engage your selected vendor through the negotiation process following a side-by-side evaluation of all responses. Then finalize your agreement.
 
Receive responses: Evaluate responses sent by vendors.
 
Evaluate and select response: Compare key information like cost, duration, location, and number and type of workers for each vendor, side-by-side.
 
Negotiate and finalize agreement: Conduct back-and-forth vendor negotiation using built-in communication tools to reach final agreement.

Manage all global services engagements within a single, centralized system; securely onboard workers, track deliverables, validate work, and generate invoices.
 
Onboard workers: Automatically kick off onboarding tasks like assigning Security IDs and providing access to systems. Prevent workers who are flagged as ‘do not re-hire’ from being onboarded.
 
Track timesheets and milestones: Approve timesheets, expenses, milestones, and deliverables on a recurring, due date, or price per unit basis.
 
Validate and approve work: Ensure services were performed as expected either from a desktop or remotely with an SAP Fieldglass mobile application.
 
Track invoices and payments: Generate invoice details, approve time worked, and view remittance details.

Complete the workflow with automated offboarding, such as terminating system access and retrieving assets, and give performance feedback on the service provided.
 
Offboard workers: Minimize security risks with prompt, automated termination of access to systems and retrieval of assets like laptops.
 
Close and evaluate service: Give performance feedback to vendors on the workers and the services they provided.

